
# Lab #4 PySpark DataFrame 
> ( 18 marks )

> Place the file “crimes2017.csv” in dbfs storage on databricks. Create a workbook to complete
each of the exercises and submit an exported python notebook to the dropbox on d2l. The code
below, loads the file into a dataframe. It also converts the ‘Date’ column from a string to a
timestamp.

1. Load the file into a spark dataframe. The below code performs this step. It also converts the
‘Date’ column from a string to a timestamp. *(be sure to substitue the correct value for your data
file)*

```
from pyspark.sql.functions import to_date,col,lit
data = spark.read.csv('url for file in dbfs',header=True,
inferSchema=True).withColumn('Date',to_date(col('Date'),'MM/dd/yyyy
hh:mm:ss a'))
```
## Lab exercise part 1. (2 marks ) 
- Once you have the dataframe loaded: 
    - display the first 5 rows. Including: 
        - the code which loaded the dataframe 
        - which transformations are being performed and,
        - which actions are being performed? 
        
>[To better understand the distinction between transformation and actions:](https://mikulskibartosz.name/difference-between-transformation-and-action-in-apache-spark)

## Lab exercise part 2 (4 marks). 
- Output the top 5 dates for reported crimes and the number of crimes on each day.  
    - Order in descending order by the number of crimes reported. Lab Exercise part 3 (4 marks)
    - Output the top 3 crimes reported and the number of times each was reported, for the day with the most number of reported crimes from part 3.

## Lab exercise part 4 (3 marks). 
- Which month of the year has the most number of crimes. 
- Output the month and the number of crimes. *([See LinkedIn learning video 4. solution for a similar example for day of the week](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/apache-pyspark-by-example/solution?resume=false&u=27766394))

## Lab exercise part 5 ( 5 marks). 
- Filter the dataframe to create a new dataframe which only contains
crimes where the word '**gun**' appears in the *'Description'* column. 
> *(be sure to ignore the case when comparing the string for ‘gun’)*. 
- What percentage of crimes involve a gun? Output all the unique ‘Description’ values which include ‘gun’.
> (due Monday Feb 10th)