# Lab #2 PySpark RDD
> Total 27 marks

*You may use AI to help you with your PySpark RDD code. Be
sure you understand and can explain any code which you use though*



For this lab you will be using Databricks community edition to run PySpark and analyze data.

For submission, export each exercise as an Ipython Notebook and submit to d2l.
# Exercise #1 ( 6 marks)

- Store the file romeo.txt into the databricks DBFS Catalog.
- Load the romeo.txt file into a PySpark RDD
- Using transformations and actions of RDD, perform a word count. (3 marks)
- Output the word which occurs the most amount of times. ( 3 marks)

# Exercise #2 ( 6 marks)

- Choose 3 RDD transformations. For each transformation, demonstrate it in a Databricks notebook, leave a comment explaining what the transformation does, and use the take action to ouptut the first 5 entries
- in the RDD after performing the transformation. (You can use any data you wish to populate the initial RDD before applying each transformation) ( 3 marks)
- Choose 3 RDD actions. For each action, demonstrate it in a Databricks notebook
    - leave a comment explaining what the action does
    - if applicable print the results of the action (You can use any data you wish to populate the initial RDD before applying each action) ( 3 marks)

# Exercise #3 (15 marks)

> Eric has started a new business “CNA Wealth Management”. To help them choose stocks to purchase for their customers Eric would like to analyze historical data contained in the NYSE_daily file. The columns in the NYSE_daily file are as follows: (exchange, symbol, date, price open, price high, price low, price
close, volume, adjusted price close)
- It turns out one stock has an opening value of $0 each day. Please filter out this value so this stock isn’t included. (3 marks)
Using RDD transformations and actions in a PySpark notebok, output each of the following:
    - Which stock had the highest volume of trading on Nov 27th, 2009? (6 marks)
    - Which stock earns the most during Dec 8th, 2009? ( compare the opening and adjusted closing value ) ( 6 marks)

> Due Wed Jan 29th